# Title of Your Final Project Here 
## INFO 201 "Foundational Skills for Data Science" — Winter 2023

Authors: Nikola Cumic, Brian Chiang, Bonie Wang, Xinying Wang

**Link: https://ncumic.shinyapps.io/final-project-ncumic/**

Please create the necessary files for your multi-page Shiny app in this GitHub repository. Consult the Canvas assignment for more details. Be sure to publish your app on Shinyapps.io.

When you are finished, please add the text from your introductory and concluding pages below. You might want to use this GitHub repository as part of your digital portfolio, so you want this README.md to offer a brief description of the project and key takeaways.

Feel free to delete these instructions for your final README.md file and to make your GitHub repository public if you would like others to be able to see it. 

# Introduction

This app explores the fascinating realm of worldwide earthquakes, aiming to uncover patterns, extract insights, and gain a deeper understanding of these seismic events that shape our planet. By analyzing a dataset spanning multiple regions and time periods, we embark on a journey to explore the nature of earthquakes and their impact on our world.



# Conclusion / Summary Takeaways

All the visualizations and analysis have revealed the high extent of the dangers of the circum-Pacific seismic belt. This area is experiencing the highest frequency of intense magnitude earthquakes with magnitudes exceeding 8. These large magnitude earthquakes can cause extensive damage to infrastructure, trigger landslides, and potentially generate tsunamis. The plot does indicate that tsunamis are predominantly generated by earthquakes located in areas surrounding the Pacific Ocean. This implies that the circum-Pacific seismic belt is one of the most dangerous seismic zones on Earth, and it’s necessary to enhance protection measures among these areas. 